
A cheerful wife is the spice of life.
A good mind possesses a kingdom.
A good name is the best of all treasures.
The apple never falls far from the tree.
Advice most needed is least heeded.
Advisers run no risks.
All are not thieves that the dogs bark at.
all is fair in love and war.
All are not friends that speak us fair.
All roads lead to Rome.
All things come to those who wait.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
An army marches on its stomach.
March winds and April showers bring forth May flowers.
As you make your bed, so you must lie on it.
A hedge between keeps friends green.
A verbal contract is not worth the paper it is written on.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
Actions speak louder than words.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
All cats love fish but hate to get their paws wet.
All for one and one for all.
All good things must come to an end.
all is well that ends well.
All that glisters is not gold.
A staff is quickly found to beat a dog.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
As the old cock crows, so crows the young.
Ask me no questions, I will tell you no lies.
A rotten apple injures its neighbors.

Bad news travels fast.
A bad penny always turns up.
A bad settlement is better than a good lawsuit.
Be careful what you wish for, you just might get it.
Well begun is half done.
A bellyful is one of meat, drink, or sorrow.
Bend the willow while it is young
The best things come in small packages.
The best things in life are free.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
Better is the enemy of good.
Big thunder, little rain.
Better late than never.
Better safe than sorry.
Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Bitter pills may have blessed effects.
Blood is thicker than water.
Beauty is in the eyes of the beholder
A bad workman blames his tools.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
Before criticizing a man, walk a mile in his shoes.
Beggars cannot be choosers.
The belly has no ears.
Better to be alone than in bad company.
Better the devil you know than the devil you do not
Better to remain silent and be thought a fool, than to open your mouth and remove all doubt.
Beware of Greeks bearing gifts.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
A blow with a word strikes deeper than a blow with a sword.
Bloom where you are planted.
Boys will be boys.
Brag is a good Dog, but Holdfast is a better.
A broken watch is right two times a day.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
By hook or by crook.
The calm (comes) before the storm.
A cat may look at a king.
Clothes make the man.
The customer is always right.
A candle loses nothing by lighting another candle.
Catch not a shadow and lose the substance.
A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.
The child is father to the man.
Cometh the hour, cometh the man.
Common sense is not so common.
Confidence begets confidence.
Courage lost, all lost.
A coward dies a thousand times before his death. The valiant never taste of death but once.

Deal gently with the bird you mean to catch.
Deep calls to deep.
Desperate times call for desperate measures.
Different strokes for different folks.
do not bark if you cannot bite.
do not bite off more than you can chew.
do not bite the hand that feeds you.
do not burn the candle at both ends.
do not count your chickens before they are hatched.
do not cross a bridge before you come to it.
do not cut off your nose to spite your face.
do not fall before you are pushed.
do not have too many irons in the fire.
do not judge a book by its cover.
do not look a gift horse in the mouth.
do not make a mountain out of a molehill.
do not make clothes for a not yet born baby.
do not mend what isn't broken.
Do not play with edged tools.
Doctors make the worst patients.
Discretion is the better part of valor.
Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.
do not carry coals to Newcastle.
do not go between the tree and the bark.
do not put all your eggs in one basket.
do not put the cart before the horse.
do not throw the baby out with the bathwater.
The door swings both ways.
Each to his own taste
The early bird catches the worm. But the second mouse gets the cheese.
An empty vessel makes the most noise
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Every rose has its thorn.
The exception proves the rule.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise.
Eat your own dog food.
Education is a progressive discovery of our own ignorance.
The ends justify the means.
Even a broken clock is right twice a day
Even a broken clock is right twice a day.
Even a dog can distinguish between being stumbled over and being kicked.
Every dog has its day.
Every tub must stand upon its bottom.
Everyone talks of changing the world, but no one talks of changing himself.
Evil begets evil.
An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.
Failure is the stepping stone for success.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
Fifty percent of something is better than one hundred percent of nothing.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
First come, first served.
First deserve, then desire.
The first step to health is to know that we are sick.
First things first.
A fool and his money are soon parted.
Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me twice, shame on me.
Forewarned is forearmed.
Forgive and forget.
A fox smells its own lair first. Or: A fox smells its own stink first.
Fretting cares make grey hairs.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.

Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
For want of a nail the shoe is lost, for want of a shoe the horse is lost, for want of a horse the rider is lost.
From those to whom much is given, much is expected.
Fortune favours the brave.
Footprints on the sands of time are not made by sitting down.
Garbage in, garbage out.
Give a dog a bad name and hang him.
Give a dog a bad name and he will live up to it.
Give a dog a bad name and he will repay you for it.
Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime.
Give and take is fair play.
Give, and ye shall receive.
Give credit where credit is due.
Give him an inch and he will take a yard.
Go with the flow.
God cures and the physician takes the fee.
A golden bit does not make the horse any better.
Good fences make good neighbors.
Good men are hard to find.
A good surgeon has an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a lady's hand.
Good swimmers are often drowned.
Good things come to those who wait.
Good wine needs no bush.
The grass is always greener on the other side.
Grasp all, lose all.
Great events cast their shadows before them.
Great minds agree.
Great spirits have always encountered violent opposition from mediocre minds.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
A half truth is a whole lie.
You cannot Have your cake and eat it too.
Hard words break no bones.
Haste makes waste.
Hawks will not pick out Hawk's eyes.
The head and feet keep warm, the rest will take no harm.
He laughs best who laughs last.
He that can have patience can have what he will.
He who dares wins.
Health is wealth.
Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned
Hindsight is always twenty-twenty.
Home is where the heart is
He who hesitates is lost.
Handsome is what handsome does.
I complained I had no shoes until I met a man who had no feet.
Idle hands are the devil's playthings.
If a job is worth doing, it is worth doing well.
If at first you do not succeed, try, try again.
If it is not broken, do not fix it.
If it cannot be cured, it must be endured.
If it looks like a duck, swims like a duck, and quacks like a duck, then it probably is a duck.
If it is too good to be true, then it probably is.
If God had wanted man to fly, He would have given him wings.
If life gives you lemons, make lemonade.
If something can go wrong, it will.
If the shoe fits, wear it.
If the truth hurts, you are not living right.
If wishes were fishes, we would all cast nets.
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.
If you buy cheaply, you pay dearly.
If you buy quality, you only cry once.
If you cannot be good, be careful.
If you cannot beat them, join them.
If you cannot take the heat, get out of the kitchen.
If you do not have anything nice to say, do not say anything at all.
If you got it flaunt it.
If you love somebody, let them go, for if they return, they were always yours. And if they do not, they never were.
If you make yourself into a doormat, people will wipe their feet on you.
If you snooze you lose
If you sup with the devil, use a long spoon.
If you trust before you try, you may repent before you die.
If you fail to plan, then you plan to fail.
If you want a thing done right, do it yourself.
If you are in a hole, stop digging.
If you are not part of the solution, you are part of the problem.
Ignorance is bliss.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
In one ear and out the other.
In order to get where you want to go, you first have to leave where you are.
In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.
Insanity is doing the same thing over and over, expecting different results.
It is not over until the fat lady sings.
it is a cracked pitcher that goes longest to the well.
it is a good horse that never stumbles.
it is a long lane that has no turning.
it is always darkest before the dawn.
it is an ill wind that blows no good.
it is better to be safe than sorry.
it is better to be silent and thought a fool, than to speak up and remove all doubt.
It is better to die on one's feet than live on one's knees.
it is better to give than to receive.
it is better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.
it is cheaper to keep her.
it is easier to ask forgiveness than permission.
it is easy to be wise after the event.
it is never too late to mend.
it is no use crying over spilt milk.
It is not over until it is over.
it is the early bird that gets the worm.
it is the empty can that makes the most noise.
It takes all sorts to make a world.
It takes two to make a quarrel.
It takes two to tango.
Jack of all trades and master of None. (18th Century)
Joan is as good as my lady in the dark. (17th Century)
A journey of a thousand miles starts with a single step.
Judge each day not by the harvest you reap but by the seeds you plant.
Justice delayed is justice denied. (Legal Proverb, India)
Kill your darlings.
Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open.
Keep your friends close, but your enemies closer.
Keep your mouth shut and your ears open.
Kindness, like grain, increase by sowing.
A kingdom is lost for want of a shoe.
Knaves and fools divide the world.
Knowledge is power. (17th Century)
Kindness, like a boomerang, always returns.
Laugh and the world laughs with you. Cry and you cry alone.
Laughter is the shortest distance between two people.
The law is a jealous mistress.
Law is the solemn expression of legislative will.
Lead by example.
Learn to walk before you run.
Least said sooner mended.
Less is more.
Let him who is without sin cast the first stone.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
Let the cobbler stick to his last.
A lie can be halfway around the world before the truth gets its boots on.
Lie down with dogs, wake up with fleas.
Life begins at forty.
Life imitates art.
Life imitates chess. - Garry Kasparov
Life is ten percent what happens to you and ninety percent how you respond to it.
Life is like a box of chocolates. You never know what you are gonna get.
Life is too short.
Life is what happens to you while you are busy making other plans.
Life is what you do while you are waiting to die.
Life is what you make of it. Always has been, always will be.
Life's battle do not always go to the stronger or faster man, but sooner or later the man who wins is the one who thinks he can.
Lightning never strikes twice in the same place.
Like cures like.
Like father, like son.
Little by little and bit by bit.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
Live and let live.
The longest mile is the last mile home.
Look after the pennies and the pounds will look after themselves.
Look before you leap.
Look on the sunny side of life.
Loose lips sink ships.
Love is blind.
Love is like war, Easy to start, Hard to end, Impossible to forget.
Love is not finding someone to live with; it is finding someone whom you cannot live without.
Love is stronger than any addiction, baby. Hell, it is one. - Madea
Love laughs at locksmiths.
Make the best of a bad bargain.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
A man's home is his castle.
A man's worst enemies are often those of his own house.
Man proposes but God disposes.
Manners maketh the man.
Many a mickle makes a muckle.
Many a true word is spoken in jest.
Many go out for wool, and come home shorn themselves.
Many hands make light work.
Many things are lost for want of asking.
Many words will not fill a bushel.
Marry in haste, and repent at leisure.
Measure twice, cut once.
Mind your Ps and Qs.
Misery loves company.
Misfortunes never come singly.
A miss by an inch is a miss by a mile.
Missing the wood for the trees.
Money cannot buy happiness.
Money is the root of all evil.
Money makes the mare go.
Money makes the world go around.
Money talks.
Monkey see, monkey do.
More haste, less speed.
The more things change, the more they stay the same.
The more you study, the more you know. The more you know, the more you forget. The more you forget, the less you know. The less you know the more you study.
The nail that sticks up will be hammered down.
Nature never did betray the heart that loved her.
Nature, time, and patience are three great physicians.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Never cast a clout until May be out.
Never judge a book by its cover.
Never let the right hand know what the left hand is doing.
Never lie to your doctor.
Never lie to your lawyer.
Never look a gift horse in the mouth.
Never put off until (until) tomorrow what you can do today.
Never say die.
Never say never.
Never trouble trouble until trouble troubles you.
Never wear a brown hat in Friesland.
A new broom sweeps clean.
A night with Venus and a life with mercury.
No man can serve two masters.
No man is an island.
No man is born into this world, whose work is not born with him.
No man is indispensable.
No news is good news.
No pain, no gain.
No time like the present.
Noblesse oblige.
None but the brave deserve the fair.
There are none so blind as they who will not see.
Nothing succeeds like success.
Nothing to be feared in life, but understood.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
An old dog will learn no tricks.
Old habits die hard.
One good turn deserves another.
One grain of sand can tip the scale.
One man's junk is another man's treasure.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
One might as well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.
One murder makes a villain, millions a hero.
One rotten apple will spoil the whole barrel.
One scabbed sheep mars the whole flock.
One swallow does not make a summer.
Once bitten, twice shy.
The only free cheese is in the mouse trap.
The only stupid question is the one that is not asked.
Opportunity knocks only once.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of wit.
Our greatest glory is not in never falling but in rising every time we fall.
Out of sight... Out of mind.
Out of small acorns grow mighty oaks.
Paddle your own canoe.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
A penny saved is a penny earned.
Penny wise, pound foolish.
People who live in glass houses should not throw stones.
Perfect Planning Prevents Piss Poor Performance.
A picture is worth a thousand words.
The pitcher which goes too often to the well gets broken.
Politeness costs nothing and gains everything.
Politics makes strange bedfellows.
Poets are born, but orators are trained.
Power tends to corrupt; absolute power corrupts absolutely.
Practice before you preach.
Practice makes perfect.
Prevention is better than cure.
Pride comes before the fall.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
Procrastination is the thief of time.
Proverbs run in pairs.
Put a beggar on horseback and he will ride it to death.
Put a beggar on horseback and he will ride to the devil.
Put your money where your mouth is.
Reality is not only stranger than we imagine, it is stranger than we can imagine.
Reality is often stranger than fiction.
Repetition is the mother of memory.
Revenge is a dish best served cold.
A rising tide lifts all boats.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
Rome was not built in a day.
The rotten apple injures its neighbors.
Rules were meant to be broken.
Say something nice or say nothing at all.
Seek and ye shall find.
Seeing is believing.
Self trust is the first secret of success.
Sell a man a fish, he eats for a day, teach a man how to fish, he eats for the rest of his life.
Set a thief to catch a thief.
Shit or get off the pot.
Shoemaker, not above the sandal
Silence is golden.
Slow and steady wins the race.
Smile, and the world smiles with you; cry, and you cry alone.
Some days you get the bear, other days the bear gets you.
Someone who gossips to you will gossip about you.
Something is better than nothing.
A son is a son until he gets him a wife; a daughter's a daughter all her life.
Spare the rod, spoil the child.
The spirit is willing but the flesh is weak.
The squeaky wheel gets the grease.
Sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never hurt me.
A suntil tongue makes a wise head.
Suntil waters run deep.
A stitch in time saves nine.
Stolen fruit is the sweetest.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Success (only) comes after every necessary precaution.
Success grows out of struggles to overcome difficulties.
Success is a journey not a destination.
Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.
Take an old dirty, hungry, mangy, sick and wet dog and feed him and wash him and nurse him back to health, and he will never turn on you and bite you. This is how man and dog differ.
Take care of the pennies and the pounds will take care of themselves.
Talk of the devil and he is sure to appear.
That which does not kill you, makes you stronger.
The dogs bark but the caravan goes on.
The worth of a thing is what it will bring.
There is luck in odd numbers.
The teacher has not taught, until the student has learned.
There is no smoke without fire.
There are no small parts, only small actors.
There is a thin line between love and hate.
there is always a calm before a storm.
there is many a slip betwixt cup and lip.
Where there is muck there is brass.
there is more than one way to skin a cat.
there is no accounting for taste.
there is no fool like an old fool.
there is no peace for the wicked.
there is no place like home.
There is no royal road to learning.
there is no such thing as a free lunch.
there is no time like the present.
There is only eight years between success and failure in politics.
A thief thinks everyone steals.
Think before you speak.
This, too, shall pass.
Those who live in glass houses should not throw stones.
Time and tide wait for none.
Time flies.
Time flies when you are having fun.
Time is money.
Time will tell.
Tis better to have loved and lost than to have never loved at all.
Tit for tat.
To each, his own.
To err is human; to forgive, divine.
To know the road ahead ask those coming back.
Tomorrow is another day.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
Too much of one thing, good for nothing.
Tread on a worm and it will turn.
Trouble shared is trouble halved.
Truth is stranger than fiction.
The truth shall set you free, or The truth will set you free.
Truth will out.
Try not to become a man of success but a man of value.
Two heads are better than one.
Two things prolong your life: A quiet heart and a loving wife.
Two wrongs do not make a right.
Two is a company; three is a crowd.
Unity is strength.
Unprepare to prepare, be prepared to be unprepared.
Use it or lose it.
Use it up, wear it out, make do with, or do without.
Variety is the spice of life.
Virtue which parleys is near a surrender.
The voice of the people is the voice of god.
Walk softly and carry a big stick.
Walk the walk and talk the talk.
Waste not, want not.
A watched pot never boils.
The way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
We cannot always build the future for our youth, but we can build our youth for the future.
We have nothing to fear but fear itself.
We ourselves feel that what we are doing is just a drop in the ocean, but the ocean would be less without that drop.
The weak can never forgive. Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong.
Well begun is half done.
"Well done" is better than "well said".
What a tangled web we weave, when first we practice to deceive.
What goes around comes around.
What goes up must come down.
What you see is what you get.
What you sow is what you reap.
Where there is a will, there is a way.
what is good for the goose is good for the gander.
When a thing is done advice comes too late.
When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
When one door closes, another door opens.
When the cat is away, the mice will play.
When the going gets tough, the tough get going.
Where ignorance is bliss, it is folly to be wise.
Where there is a will, there is a way.
Where vice goes before, vengeance follows after.
The whole dignity of man lies in the power of thought.
Willful waste makes woeful want.
The wish is father to the thought.
Wise men learn by other men's harms, fools by their own.
A woman is like a tea bag; you will never know how strong she is until she is in hot water.
A woman's work is never done.
Women need men like a fish needs a bicycle.
A word spoken is past recalling.
The world is your oyster.
Worship the Creator not His creation.
The worst way to miss someone is to be sitting right beside them knowing you cannot have them.
Work is worship.

You always admire what you really do not understand.
You always find something in the last place you look.
You can lead a horse to water, but you cannot make it drink.
You know the tree by its fruit.
The younger brother the better gentleman.
You cannot have an omelette unless you break the egg.
You cannot see the forest for the trees
Do not shit where you eat.


